Euler V2 | Ethereum | [available] (#145)
deficollective/defiscan: src/content/protocols/euler/euler.md

        status: "fixed",
      },
      {
        text: "Dependency with a High centralization score is mitigated",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      {
        text: "Frontend backups or self-hosting option exists",
        status: "fixed",
      },
    ],
    [
      {
        text: "Upgrades have no potential of “loss of funds or unclaimed yield“",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      { text: "There are no external dependencies", status: "fixed" },
      { text: "Alternative third-party frontends exist", status: "fixed" },
    ],
  ]
---

---

# Summary

Euler V2 is a permissioned, decentralized lending and borrowing protocol deployed on Ethereum. It allows users to deposit assets as collateral, borrow against them, and earn interest via an on-chain interest rate model. The protocol employs smart contracts such as EVaults, a generic factory, and a router to handle asset flows, and integrates with oracles and governance modules to manage risk and updates.

# Ratings

## Chain

Euler V2 is deployed on various chains. This review is based on the Ethereum mainnet deployment.

> Chain score: Low

## Upgradeability

> The Euler V2 protocol can be analyzed in a number of logical modules: _Factory-Level Bytecode Upgrades_, _Per-Vault Parameter Control_, _Oracle System_, _Fee Configuration_, _EulerEarn Vault System_, and _EulerSwap_. These modules contain permissioned functions that could result in the _theft or loss of user funds_, _loss of unclaimed yield_, or otherwise _materially affect the expected performance_ of the protocol. The control vectors are distributed across the [DAO](#security-council) multisig, [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) contract, [Euler Labs](#security-council), vault-specific governors, and various role-based permissions.

Author: ```suggestion
The Euler V2 protocol can be analyzed in a number of logical modules: _Vault Factory_, _Vault Risk Management_, _Oracle System_, _Fee Configuration_, _EulerEarn Vault System_, and _EulerSwap_. These modules contain permissioned functions that could result in the _theft or loss of user funds_, _loss of unclaimed yield_, or otherwise _materially affect the expected performance_ of the protocol. The control vectors are distributed across the [DAO](#security-council) multisig, [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) contract, [Euler Labs](#security-council), vault-specific governors, and various role-based permissions.
```

### Factory-Level Bytecode Upgrades

> The [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) contract's `setImplementation` function upgrades the implementation logic for all BeaconProxy vaults simultaneously. Each BeaconProxy queries the factory's `implementation()` function on every call to fetch the current [EVault](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) address. The [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) holds exclusive authority over this function, protected by a 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968). The factory also exposes `setUpgradeAdmin` to transfer complete factory control.

Author: ```suggestion
Vaults are created through the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e). Vaults can be configured to be upgradeable or non-upgradeable. The upgradeable Vaults are all upgraded simultaneously. The [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) holds exclusive authority to upgrade, but which is protected by a 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968). The permission to upgrade remains transferable.
```

### Per-Vault Parameter Control

> Each EVault stores a `governorAdmin` address controlling vault-specific parameters through functions including `setGovernorAdmin`, `setFeeReceiver`, `setLTV`, `setMaxLiquidationDiscount`, `setLiquidationCoolOffTime`, `setInterestRateModel`, `setHookConfig`, `setConfigFlags`, `setCaps`, and `setInterestFee`. DAO-managed vaults route these permissions through [GovernorAccessControlEmergency](https://etherscan.io/address/0x35400831044167E9E2DE613d26515eeE37e30a1b) with 48-hour timelock delays via [AdminTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0xBfeE2D937FB9223FFD65b7cDF607bd1DA9B97E59) and [WildcardTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1b8C367aE56656b1D0901b2ADd1AD3226fF74f5a). Private vault creators can assign governance to an EOA or multisig for direct control. The [CapRiskSteward](https://etherscan.io/address/0xFE56cAa36DA676364e1a0a97e4f7C07651e89B95) multisig (3/5) holds emergency roles that bypass the 48-hour timelock for immediate risk-reducing actions.

Author: ```suggestion
Each EVault stores a `governorAdmin` address controlling vault-specific risk parameters like borrow and supply caps, LTV, and interest rate models through permissioned functions. DAO-managed vaults route these permissions through [GovernorAccessControlEmergency](https://etherscan.io/address/0x35400831044167E9E2DE613d26515eeE37e30a1b) with 48-hour timelock delays via [AdminTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0xBfeE2D937FB9223FFD65b7cDF607bd1DA9B97E59) and [WildcardTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1b8C367aE56656b1D0901b2ADd1AD3226fF74f5a). Private vault creators can assign governance to an EOA or multisig for direct control or deploy their own `GovernorAccessControlEmergency` contract.

The [CapRiskSteward](https://etherscan.io/address/0xFE56cAa36DA676364e1a0a97e4f7C07651e89B95) multisig (3/5) holds emergency roles that bypass the 48-hour timelock for immediate risk-reducing actions.
```

### Oracle System

Each `EulerRouter` has independent governance controlling `govSetConfig`, `govSetResolvedVault`, and `govSetFallbackOracle`, which configure price oracles for asset pairs. The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintained by [Euler Labs](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB1345E7A4D35FB3E6bF22A32B3741Ae74E5Fba27) whitelists approved oracle adapters through `add` and `revoke` functions.

### Fee Configuration

> The [ProtocolConfig](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4cD6BF1D183264c02Be7748Cb5cd3A47d013351b) contract controls global fee settings through `setProtocolFeeShare`, `setInterestFeeRange`, and vault-specific overrides, which affect all existing user positions immediately. Per-vault fee configuration is available through `setFeeReceiver` and `setInterestFee` on individual EVaults.

Author: retroperspectively? affecting unclaimed yield? or newly accumulated yield?

Author: ```solidity
function convertFees() public virtual nonReentrant {
        (VaultCache memory vaultCache, address account) = initOperation(OP_CONVERT_FEES, CHECKACCOUNT_NONE);

        if (vaultCache.accumulatedFees.isZero()) return;

        (address protocolReceiver, uint16 protocolFee) = protocolConfig.protocolFeeConfig(address(this));
        address governorReceiver = vaultStorage.feeReceiver;

        if (governorReceiver == address(0)) {
            protocolFee = CONFIG_SCALE; // governor forfeits fees
        } else if (protocolFee > MAX_PROTOCOL_FEE_SHARE) {
            protocolFee = MAX_PROTOCOL_FEE_SHARE;
        }

        Shares governorShares = vaultCache.accumulatedFees.mulDiv(CONFIG_SCALE - protocolFee, CONFIG_SCALE);
        Shares protocolShares = vaultCache.accumulatedFees - governorShares;

        // Decrease totalShares because increaseBalance will increase it by that total amount
        vaultStorage.totalShares = vaultCache.totalShares = vaultCache.totalShares - vaultCache.accumulatedFees;

        vaultStorage.accumulatedFees = vaultCache.accumulatedFees = Shares.wrap(0);

        // For the Deposit events in increaseBalance the assets amount is zero - the shares are covered with the accrued
        // interest
        if (!governorShares.isZero()) {
            increaseBalance(vaultCache, governorReceiver, address(0), governorShares, Assets.wrap(0));
        }

        if (!protocolShares.isZero()) {
            increaseBalance(vaultCache, protocolReceiver, address(0), protocolShares, Assets.wrap(0));
        }

        emit ConvertFees(account, protocolReceiver, governorReceiver, protocolShares.toUint(), governorShares.toUint());
    }
```

> Overall score: Stage 0

# Protocol Analysis

## Core Architecture and EVC Mediation

Euler V2 implements a modular vault-based lending architecture centered around two foundational contracts: the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) and the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e). The [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) serves as an immutable authentication layer mediating all interactions between users and vaults, while the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) enables permissionless creation of isolated lending markets. Each vault functions as an ERC-4626 compliant tokenized debt market for a specific underlying asset, maintaining full compatibility with the broader DeFi ecosystem.

### Vault Creation and Deployment

> Vault creation begins when any user calls `createProxy` on the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e), which deploys a new vault instance as either a `BeaconProxy` or `MinimalProxy` that delegates all function execution to the standardized [EVault (Implementation)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) via delegatecall. The `BeaconProxy` queries the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e)'s `implementation()` function on every call to fetch the current [EVault (Implementation)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) address, enabling factory-wide upgrades through a single `setImplementation` transaction.

Author: ```suggestion
Vault creation begins when any user calls `createProxy` on the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e), which deploys a new vault instance as either a `BeaconProxy` or `MinimalProxy` that delegates all function execution to the standardized [EVault (Implementation)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) via delegatecall. The `BeaconProxy` queries the `EVault` implementation contract from the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) with the `implementation()` function. All upgradeable Vaults using the Beacon Proxy pattern can be upgrading using a single call to the `setImplementation`.
```

Author: simplify

> This proxy architecture separates code logic from data storage. [EVault (Implementation)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) contains the reusable function code shared across all vaults, while each proxy stores its own independent state including the `governorAdmin` address, user balances, collateral configurations, and vault parameters. The factory supports two deployment patterns: when `upgradeable=true`, it deploys a `BeaconProxy` allowing authorized governance to upgrade all vault implementations simultaneously; when `upgradeable=false`, it deploys an immutable `MinimalProxy` whose logic cannot be changed. Analysis of on-chain events reveals predominantly upgradeable `BeaconProxy` deployments, with no immutable `MinimalProxy` instances observed in the examined sample.

Author: ```suggestion
If the user decides to deploy an non-upgradeable Vault the factory deploys an immutable `MinimalProxy` whose logic cannot be changed. Analysis of on-chain events reveals predominantly upgradeable `BeaconProxy` deployments, with no immutable `MinimalProxy` instances observed in the examined sample.
```

Author: simplify

All critical factory operations are protected by a mandatory 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968), providing users with advance notice before any upgrade takes effect. The factory also implements emergency pause functionality through the [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d), which can immediately place all upgradeable vault operations in read-only mode by installing a `ReadOnlyProxy` as the factory implementation. The complete governance structure, including proposal mechanisms, role assignments, and emergency controls, is detailed in the [Governance](#governance) section.

### Ethereum Vault Connector (EVC)

> The [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) functions as the mandatory entry point for all vault interactions in Euler V2, serving as an immutable authentication and coordination layer with no governance or upgrade mechanisms. The [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) mediates every deposit, withdrawal, borrow, and liquidation operation, enabling vaults to trust that calls originating from the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) are properly authenticated and authorized. This architecture ensures vault logic remains simple and modular while complex authentication, batching, and cross-vault coordination are handled by the centralized but trustless [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) contract.

Author: it's not mandatory, users can also interact directly with vaults

        status: "fixed",
      },
      {
        text: "Dependency with a High centralization score is mitigated",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      {
        text: "Frontend backups or self-hosting option exists",
        status: "fixed",
      },
    ],
    [
      {
        text: "Upgrades have no potential of “loss of funds or unclaimed yield“",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      { text: "There are no external dependencies", status: "fixed" },
      { text: "Alternative third-party frontends exist", status: "fixed" },
    ],
  ]
---

---

# Summary

Euler V2 is a permissioned, decentralized lending and borrowing protocol deployed on Ethereum. It allows users to deposit assets as collateral, borrow against them, and earn interest via an on-chain interest rate model. The protocol employs smart contracts such as EVaults, a generic factory, and a router to handle asset flows, and integrates with oracles and governance modules to manage risk and updates.

# Ratings

## Chain

Euler V2 is deployed on various chains. This review is based on the Ethereum mainnet deployment.

> Chain score: Low

## Upgradeability

> The Euler V2 protocol can be analyzed in a number of logical modules: _Vault Factory_, _Vault Risk Management_, _Oracle System_, _Fee Configuration_, _EulerEarn Vault System_, and _EulerSwap_. These modules contain permissioned functions that could result in the _theft or loss of user funds_, _loss of unclaimed yield_, or otherwise _materially affect the expected performance_ of the protocol. The control vectors are distributed across the [DAO](#security-council) multisig, [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) contract, [Euler Labs](#security-council), vault-specific governors, and various role-based permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Euler V2 protocol contains permissioned functions across multiple modules that could result in the theft or loss of user funds, loss of unclaimed yield, or otherwise materially affect the expected performance of the protocol. The control vectors are distributed across the DAO multisig, Euler Labs, vault-specific governors, and various role-based permissions. Each module carries specific risks as detailed below.
```

### Oracle Registry and Validation

The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintains a reference list of approved oracle adapters for informational purposes. This registry is used by [OracleLens](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C47736aaBEE757AB8C8F60776741e39DBf3F183) to provide approved adapter lists to frontends and dashboards via getValidAdapters(), but each `EulerRouter` does not verify adapter approval before dispatching queries from the `EVault`. Router governors can install unapproved oracle adapters via govSetConfig, users rely on the frontend to get information regarding the passed or not passed checks from the registry whitelist.

>  [Euler Labs](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB1345E7A4D35FB3E6bF22A32B3741Ae74E5Fba27) controls the registry via add and revoke. Each router has independent governance controlling govSetConfig, govSetResolvedVault, and govSetFallbackOracle, separate from vault governance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Euler Labs](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB1345E7A4D35FB3E6bF22A32B3741Ae74E5Fba27) controls the registry via add and revoke. Each router has its own governor controlling govSetConfig, govSetResolvedVault, and govSetFallbackOracle. The router governor and vault governor are often the same entity.
```

`Curator` controls strategy selection via `submitCap` to set per-strategy supply caps. Cap increases require timelock approval; decreases execute immediately. `submitMarketRemoval` initiates strategy removal from withdrawal queues after reducing caps to zero. Maximum 30 strategies per vault.

`Allocator` executes rebalancing operations via `reallocate` to move funds between strategies within cap limits, `setSupplyQueue` to reorder deposit allocation priority, and `updateWithdrawQueue` to configure withdrawal ordering. Multiple allocators can be authorized simultaneously, enabling operational decentralization or automation via contracts.

`Guardian` exercises veto power via `revokePendingTimelock`, `revokePendingGuardian`, `revokePendingCap`, and `revokePendingMarketRemoval`, functioning as a circuit-breaker for timelocked actions.

Certain functions accept multiple roles: `setSupplyQueue`, `updateWithdrawQueue`, and `reallocate` accept `Allocator`, `Curator`, or `Owner`. `revokePendingCap` and `revokePendingMarketRemoval` accept `Curator`, `Guardian`, or `Owner`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Strategy Whitelisting

The [EulerEarnFactory2](https://etherscan.io/address/0x59709B029B140C853FE28d277f83C3a65e308aF4) controls which whitelist of approved EVaults is used by all EulerEarn vaults. Curators can only add strategies from EVaults that appear on the configured whitelist. Different whitelist types exist: [EVKFactoryPerspective](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB30f23bc5F93F097B3A699f71B0b1718Fc82e182) automatically approves all vaults deployed by the factory, [GovernedPerspective](https://etherscan.io/address/0x747a726736DDBE6210B9d7187b3479DC5705165E) requires manual approval by [Euler Labs](#security-council), and [EulerUngovernedPerspective](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6aBc5f4a8c32e66ee5c35aAbD53A763D3B1cAc0A) automatically approves ungoverned vaults that pass all criteria checks. A compromised whitelist alone cannot cause loss of funds as it requires both a compromised whitelist and a malicious curator to enable dangerous strategies.

```

The [riskSteward](https://etherscan.io/address/0xBdAa3FCc9983bD72feE0F7D017e02673896a976d) multisig (3/5) holds emergency roles that bypass the 48-hour timelock for immediate risk-reducing actions.

### Oracle System

Each Vaults has configured an `EulerRouter` immutably which dispatches calls to get quotes for asset pricing to price adapters which wrap around price feeds from different vendors. Each `EulerRouter` is governed and exposes permissions to update the price adapters and therefore the underlying price feeds and pricing mechanisms. (**who owns the permissions in the EulerRouters?**)

>  The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintained by [Euler Labs](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB1345E7A4D35FB3E6bF22A32B3741Ae74E5Fba27) whitelists approved oracle adapters through `add` and `revoke` functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintained by [Euler Labs](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB1345E7A4D35FB3E6bF22A32B3741Ae74E5Fba27) maintains a reference list of approved oracle adapters through add and revoke functions, but EulerRouter does not verify adapter approval before using configured oracles.
```

### Oracle Adapters and Providers

Oracle Adapters are immutable contracts translating external data into ERC-7726 format. Active integrations include Chainlink, Pyth, RedStone, Chronicle, Lido, Pendle, Uniswap V3, Midas, MEV Capital, Idle, and Resolv. The system supports push-based oracles like Chainlink with automatic updates, and pull-based oracles like Pyth requiring users to submit fresh data. CrossAdapters derive prices through sequential multiplication of two sources, while ERC-4626 adapters query `convertToAssets()` for share valuations.

### Oracle Registry and Validation

> The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintains approved adapters. Routers verify adapter approval before dispatching queries. [Euler Labs](https://etherscan.io/address/0xB1345E7A4D35FB3E6bF22A32B3741Ae74E5Fba27) controls the registry via `add` and `revoke`. Each router has independent governance controlling `govSetConfig`, `govSetResolvedVault`, and `govSetFallbackOracle`, separate from vault governance.

Author: Router governors can install unapproved oracle adapters via govSetConfig, users rely on the frontend to get information regarding the passed or not passed checks from the registry whitelist.

The protocol exposes critical permissions for factory-wide bytecode upgrades and per-vault parameter control that are protected with timelock delays of only 48 hours and 4 days, falling below the 7-day minimum threshold. Furthermore, Euler V2 is exposed to centralization risks from its external oracle dependencies, where vault creators select from multiple providers including Chainlink, Pyth, and RedStone without protocol-level fallback mechanisms to mitigate price feed failures.

Euler V2 thus achieves _Stage 0_.

The protocol could reach _Stage 1_ by: 1) extending timelock protections to at least 7 days for all critical permissions, Or 2) establishing a Security Council with at least 7 signers, at least 51% threshold, at least 50% non-insider signers, and publicly announced signers with ownership of or veto power over critical permissions, And 3) implementing fallback mechanisms for oracle dependencies, And 4) publishing the frontend code to IPFS or developing alternative interfaces.

> Overall score: Stage 0

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Reviewer's Notes

We further want to highlight the following observations which did not directly factor into the scoring:

⚠️ Governors of privately-managed `EVaults` are in control of critical permissions which can result in the loss of user funds and loss of unclaimed yield. These permissions only have a direct impact on users in the respective vault and thus do not contribute to the centralization of the Euler protocol. Privately-managed vaults operate outside the DAO's timelocked governance framework, and users should independently evaluate the trustworthiness and operational security of the vault governor before depositing.

⚠️ Curators and Allocators of `EulerEarn` Vaults are in control of critical permissions which can result in the loss of user funds and loss of unclaimed yield. Curators manage strategy risk by adding `EVaults` and setting supply caps, while Allocators control fund distribution to enabled strategies. These permissions only have a direct impact on users in the respective `EulerEarn` vault and thus do not contribute to the centralization of the Euler protocol. Vault owners can assign Guardians with the capability to revoke pending actions that increase risk towards end users.

⚠️ Each `EVault` uses an `EulerRouter` for price feeds, configured by the vault governor. The `EulerRouter` does not verify oracle adapters against the SnapshotRegistry on-chain, allowing vault governors to configure any oracle adapter including potentially malicious ones. Users should verify the oracle configuration of vaults they interact with.
```

Euler V2 implements a vendor-agnostic oracle system through the [EulerRouterFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x70B3f6F61b7Bf237DF04589DdAA842121072326A), enabling permissionless creation of independent oracle routers. Each `EulerRouter` instance, such as this [EulerRouter](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8ab93f4ee16fb9c0086651a85f941b8a8716cd57) deployment, has its own governor and configuration.

Vault creators specify an `EulerRouter` address during deployment, which connection becomes immutable. Vaults call `getQuote(inAmount, base, quote)` on their `EulerRouter`, which dispatches to registered adapters and returns price data.

Adapters are immutable contracts translating external data into ERC-7726 format. Active integrations include Chainlink, Pyth, RedStone, Chronicle, Lido, Pendle, Uniswap V3, Midas, MEV Capital, Idle, and Resolv. The system supports push-based oracles like Chainlink with automatic updates, and pull-based oracles like Pyth requiring users to submit fresh data. CrossAdapters derive prices through sequential multiplication of two sources, while ERC-4626 adapters query `convertToAssets()` for share valuations.

### Oracle Registry and Validation

> The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintains a reference list of approved oracle adapters for informational purposes. This registry is used by [OracleLens](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C47736aaBEE757AB8C8F60776741e39DBf3F183) to provide approved adapter lists to frontends and dashboards via getValidAdapters(), but EulerRouter does not verify adapter approval before dispatching queries. Router governors can install unapproved oracle adapters via govSetConfig, users rely on the frontend to get information regarding the passed or not passed checks from the registry whitelist.

Author: ```suggestion
The [SnapshotRegistry (oracleAdapterRegistry)](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA084A7F49723E3cc5722E052CF7fce910E7C5Fe6) maintains a reference list of approved oracle adapters for informational purposes. This registry is used by [OracleLens](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C47736aaBEE757AB8C8F60776741e39DBf3F183) to provide approved adapter lists to frontends and dashboards via getValidAdapters(), but each `EulerRouter` does not verify adapter approval before dispatching queries from the `EVault`. Router governors can install unapproved oracle adapters via govSetConfig, users rely on the frontend to get information regarding the passed or not passed checks from the registry whitelist.
```

![Oracle System and Price Feeds](../diagrams/Euler_v2_Oracle_System_and_Price_Feeds.png)

## Governance, Timelocks and Permissions

Euler V2 implements a multi-layered governance architecture with per-vault governance, factory-level upgrades, and global configuration via [ProtocolConfig](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4cD6BF1D183264c02Be7748Cb5cd3A47d013351b). The [DAO multisig](https://etherscan.io/address/0xcAD001c30E96765aC90307669d578219D4fb1DCe) (4/8 threshold) operates through three TimelockController contracts: 48-hour [AdminTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0xBfeE2D937FB9223FFD65b7cDF607bd1DA9B97E59) for role management, 48-hour [WildcardTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1b8C367aE56656b1D0901b2ADd1AD3226fF74f5a) for parameter adjustments, and 4-day [FactoryTimelock](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968) for protocol upgrades.

### Per-Vault Governance Structure

> Each vault stores a `governorAdmin` address controlling vault-specific parameters (LTV ratios, interest rate models, caps, hooks, fees) via `governorOnly` protected functions. DAO-managed vaults use [GovernorAccessControlEmergency](https://etherscan.io/address/0x35400831044167E9E2DE613d26515eeE37e30a1b) as `governorAdmin`, enforcing 48-hour timelock delays. Private vaults can use an EOA or multisig for direct control without delays.

Author: ```suggestion
```

# Ratings

## Chain

Euler V2 is deployed on various chains. This review is based on the Ethereum mainnet deployment.

> Chain score: Low

## Upgradeability

The Euler V2 protocol can be analyzed in a number of logical modules: _Vault Factory_, _Vault Risk Management_, _Oracle System_, _Fee Configuration_, _EulerEarn Vault System_, and _EulerSwap_. These modules contain permissioned functions that could result in the _theft or loss of user funds_, _loss of unclaimed yield_, or otherwise _materially affect the expected performance_ of the protocol. The control vectors are distributed across the [DAO](#security-council) multisig, [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) contract, [Euler Labs](#security-council), vault-specific governors, and various role-based permissions.

### Vault Factory

> Vaults are created through the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e). Vaults can be configured to be upgradeable or non-upgradeable. If upgraded, all upgradeable Vaults are upgraded simultaneously. The [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) holds exclusive authority to upgrade, but which is protected by a 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968). The permission to upgrade remains transferable.

Author: potentially causing loss of funds

Reviewer: Vaults are created through the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e). Vaults can be configured to be upgradeable or non-upgradeable. If upgraded, all upgradeable Vaults are upgraded simultaneously, potentially causing loss of funds if the new implementation contains malicious or faulty code. The [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) holds exclusive authority to upgrade, protected by a 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968). The permission to upgrade remains transferable.

The protocol employs CrossAdapters that derive prices through sequential multiplication of two external oracles sharing a base or quote asset. These create dependency chains where the failure of either component oracle causes complete price feed failure. For ERC-4626 vault collaterals, the system depends on external vaults' `convertToAssets()` functions, which may be vulnerable to manipulation if those vaults lack adequate protections.

Pull-based oracles like Pyth introduce operational dependencies where transactions can fail if price updates are not fetched within the 2-3 minute validity window. Observable errors include intermittent failures when querying vault data and operations failing unpredictably based on timing, highlighting the practical risks of external oracle dependencies.

> Autonomy score: High

> ## Exit Window

Author: go through the upgradeability vectors 1-5 (see excalidraw) and write that the exit window is below 7 days, but currently 4. Additionally for vector 2,3 and 5 write that 3rd party management can be even without exit window and it depends on the private entity controlling this vector

> Overall score: Stage 0

# Protocol Analysis

## Core Architecture and EVC Mediation

Euler V2 implements a modular vault-based lending architecture centered around two foundational contracts: the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) and the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e). The [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383) serves as an immutable authentication layer mediating all interactions between users and vaults, while the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) enables permissionless creation of isolated lending markets. Each vault functions as an ERC-4626 compliant tokenized debt market for a specific underlying asset, maintaining full compatibility with the broader DeFi ecosystem.

### Vault Creation and Deployment

> Vault creation begins when any user calls `createProxy` on the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e), which deploys a new vault instance as either a `BeaconProxy` or `MinimalProxy` that delegates all function execution to the standardized [EVault (Implementation)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) via delegatecall. The `BeaconProxy` queries the `EVault` implementation contract from the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) with the `implementation()` function. All upgradeable Vaults using the Beacon Proxy pattern can be upgrading using a single call to the `setImplementation`. Read more in [factory-level upgrades](###factory-level-governance)

Author: ```suggestion
Vault creation begins when any user calls `createProxy` on the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e), which deploys a new vault instance as either a `BeaconProxy` or `MinimalProxy` that delegates all function execution to the standardized [EVault (Implementation)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8Ff1C814719096b61aBf00Bb46EAd0c9A529Dd7D) via delegatecall. The `BeaconProxy` queries the `EVault` implementation contract from the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) with the `implementation()` function. All upgradeable Vaults using the Beacon Proxy pattern can be upgrading using a single call to the `setImplementation`. Read more in [factory-level upgrades](###factory-level-governance)

All critical factory operations are protected by a mandatory 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968), providing users with advance notice before any upgrade takes effect. The factory also implements emergency pause functionality through the [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d), which can immediately place all upgradeable vault operations in read-only mode by installing a `ReadOnlyProxy` as the factory implementation. The complete governance structure, including proposal mechanisms, role assignments, and emergency controls, is detailed in the [Governance](#governance) section.
```

If the user decides to deploy an non-upgradeable Vault the factory deploys an immutable `MinimalProxy` whose logic cannot be changed. Analysis of on-chain events reveals predominantly upgradeable `BeaconProxy` deployments, with no immutable `MinimalProxy` instances observed in the examined sample.

> During initialization, the newly created vault automatically registers itself with the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383), establishing itself as a recognized entity within the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383)'s authentication framework. The vault simultaneously creates an associated `DToken` contract, an ERC-20 compliant debt token that represents borrowed positions and makes debt modifications visible in block explorers and tax accounting software. The vault creator specifies critical parameters including the underlying asset, oracle router, interest rate model, and governance settings. Once deployed, the vault operates as an independent lending market with its own collateral configuration and risk parameters.

Author: ```suggestion
During initialization, the newly created vault automatically registers itself with the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383), establishing itself as a recognized entity within the [EthereumVaultConnector (EVC)](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0C9a3dd6b8F28529d72d7f9cE918D493519EE383)'s authentication framework. The vault simultaneously creates an associated `DToken` contract, an ERC-20 compliant debt token that represents borrowed positions and makes debt modifications visible in block explorers and tax accounting software. The vault creator specifies critical parameters including the underlying asset, oracle router, interest rate model, and governance settings. Once deployed, the vault operates as an independent lending market with its own collateral configuration and risk parameters.

```

### Factory-Level Governance

Control over the [GenericFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x29a56a1b8214D9Cf7c5561811750D5cBDb45CC8e) operates through the [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d), which holds exclusive authority to call `setImplementation` and upgrade the beacon implementation address for all `BeaconProxy` vaults simultaneously. The [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d) can also execute `setUpgradeAdmin` to transfer factory control to a different address.

> All critical factory operations are protected by a mandatory 4-day timelock through the [eVaultFactoryTimelockController](https://etherscan.io/address/0xfb034c1C6c7F42171b2d1Cb8486E0f43ED07A968), providing users with advance notice before any upgrade takes effect. The factory also implements emergency pause functionality through the [FactoryGovernor](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2F13256E04022d6356d8CE8C53C7364e13DC1f3d), which can immediately place all upgradeable vault operations in read-only mode by installing a `ReadOnlyProxy` as the factory implementation. The complete governance structure, including proposal mechanisms, role assignments, and emergency controls, is detailed in the [Governance](#governance) section.

Author: ```suggestion
```

With the current setup, the timelock protections (48-hour and 4-day delays) fall below the 7-day minimum threshold required for medium risk classification, and numerous critical functions affecting user funds can be executed by multisigs or role holders.

> Upgradeability score: High

## Autonomy

Euler V2 relies on external oracle providers selected by vault creators and risk curators for all price data required for collateral valuations and liquidation decisions. Vault creators are free to choose appropriate price oracle implementations from various providers including Chainlink, Pyth, RedStone, Chronicle, Lido, Pendle, Uniswap V3, Midas, MEV Capital, Idle, and Resolv, thus delegating responsibility to individual actors.

The protocol employs CrossAdapters that derive prices through sequential multiplication of two external oracles sharing a base or quote asset. These create dependency chains where the failure of either component oracle causes complete price feed failure. For ERC-4626 vault collaterals, the system depends on external vaults' `convertToAssets()` functions, which may be vulnerable to manipulation if those vaults lack adequate protections.

> Pull-based oracles like Pyth introduce operational dependencies where transactions can fail if price updates are not fetched within the 2-3 minute validity window. Observable errors include intermittent failures when querying vault data and operations failing unpredictably based on timing, highlighting the practical risks of external oracle dependencies.

Author: ```suggestion
Euler V2 relies on external oracle providers selected by the `EVault` creators and risk curators for all price data required for collateral valuations and liquidation decisions. Vault creators are free to choose appropriate price oracle implementations from various providers including Chainlink, Pyth, RedStone, Chronicle, Lido, Pendle, Uniswap V3, Midas, MEV Capital, Idle, and Resolv, thus delegating responsibility to individual actors.

Euler Vaults are configured with an external price oracle based on which the solvency of a position is established. Vault creators are free in the choice of price oracles thus delegating responsibility to EVault creators.

However, around 30% of the available adapters use Chainlink feeds as an underlying source. The adapter do basic checks as liveness and check of price above 0, but do not provide more checks. **this does not reflect the actual usage of the Vaults**

Those feeds are controlled in a centralized manner, a multisig account not complying with Security Council requirements, the impact of a failure has to be assessed nonetheless. A complete analysis of Chainlink price feeds can be found in the dedicated [report](https://www.defiscan.info/protocols/chainlink-oracles/ethereum).

An unintended upgrade of the Chainlink price feed contracts could result in stale or inaccurate prices being reported. Since the Chainlink adapter provided by Euler reverts on a negative price reported by a Chainlink feed, this failure could result in the permanent freezing of funds in affected vault. With a potential impact on more than xx% of Euler Vaults, or more than xx% of Euler's TVL. This potential impact on xx% of Euler's TVL results in a Medium centralization risk from Chainlink.
```

### Vault Factory

`EVaults` are created by users via the Factory contract. At creation, users decide whether the newly deployed `EVault` is immutable or upgradeable. The [Euler DAO](#security-council) multisig can do the upgrade of all upgradeable `EVaults`. If maliciously upgraded, this can lead to _loss of funds_ for all users deposited across upgradeable vaults, as upgrades are executed across all upgradeable `EVaults` at once. The upgrade is protected by a 4-day timelock.

### Per-Vault Parameter Control

Vaults can either be governed or ungoverned. Governed EVaults allow their governor to accept new collateral types and adjust risk parameters. Misconfiguration or acceptance of malicious collateral can cause _loss of funds_. Governed Vaults can either be governed by the Euler DAO or privately by 3rd-parties. DAO-managed vaults have a 48-hour timelock protection. Privately-managed vaults may have no timelock protection.

The [riskSteward](https://etherscan.io/address/0xBdAa3FCc9983bD72feE0F7D017e02673896a976d) multisig (3/5) holds emergency roles that bypass the 48-hour timelock for immediate risk-reducing actions.

### Oracle System

> Each `EVault` has an oracle router configured at creation. The router dispatches requests to different price sources. The router governor can update which price feeds are used to price assets. The router governor and vault governor are often the same entity. Misconfiguration of oracle settings can lead to _loss of funds_ through unfair liquidations or excessive borrowing.

Author: ```suggestion
Each `EVault` has an oracle router configured at creation. The router dispatches requests for quotes to different price sources wrapped in adapters. The router governor can update which price feeds are used to price assets. The router governor and vault governor are often the same entity. Misconfiguration of oracle settings can lead to _loss of funds_ through unfair liquidations or excessive borrowing.
```

### Vault Governance Models

EVaults operate under two distinct governance models based on the `governorAdmin` storage variable. Non-governed vaults have `governorAdmin` set to `address(0)`, permanently revoking all governance capabilities. All vault parameters become immutable, including LTV ratios, interest rate models, caps, and fee configurations. Users in these vaults accept fixed risk parameters without reliance on third-party management.

> Governed vaults have an active `governorAdmin` address that can modify vault parameters through functions protected by the `governorOnly` modifier. Governed vaults divide into two categories. DAO-managed vaults use the [GovernorAccessControlEmergency](https://etherscan.io/address/0xaf1a3652399aF17473FBdB0F809f0C0B033cB9eB) contract as `governorAdmin`, providing timelocked governance through 48-hour and 4-day delays and emergency roles for immediate protective actions. These vaults are managed by verified risk curators who have undergone KYB verification. Privately-managed vaults use an EOA, multisig, or custom contract as `governorAdmin`, where the vault creator retains direct control over all governance functions without mandatory timelocks. Anyone can deploy their own governance suite via the [GovernorAccessControlEmergencyFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x025C8831c6E45420DF8E71F7B6b99F733D120Faf) to benefit from structured governance with timelocks and emergency roles.

Author: ```suggestion
Governed vaults have an active `governorAdmin` address that can modify vault parameters through functions protected by the `governorOnly` modifier. Governed vaults divide into two categories. DAO-managed vaults use the [GovernorAccessControlEmergency](https://etherscan.io/address/0xaf1a3652399aF17473FBdB0F809f0C0B033cB9eB) contract as `governorAdmin`, providing timelocked governance through 48-hour and 4-day delays and emergency roles for immediate protective actions. Privately-managed vaults use an EOA, multisig, or custom contract as `governorAdmin`, where the vault creator retains direct control over all governance functions without mandatory timelocks. Anyone can deploy their own governance suite via the [GovernorAccessControlEmergencyFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0x025C8831c6E45420DF8E71F7B6b99F733D120Faf) to benefit from structured governance with timelocks and emergency roles. These privately-managed vaults are managed by verified risk curators who have undergone KYB verification. 
```

On the level of price oracle vendors Chainlink ranks number 1 among all used vendors, controlling more than 30% of the current available assets. However most TVL is currently controlled by fixed rate adapters (asset in vault is fixed set to 1:1 USD).

For all adapters that point to chainlink price feeds (30%), a false price could be reported by the chainlink multisig exercising an upgrade on the price feeds. This could lead to wrong prices and _loss of user funds_. Their multisig does not comply with Security Council requirements. A complete analysis of Chainlink price feeds can be found in the dedicated [report](https://www.defiscan.info/protocols/chainlink-oracles/ethereum).

Due to this high concentration on few counterparties, the Dependency Risk is assessed as _High_.

> Autonomy score: High

## Exit Window

Contract upgrades of `EVaults` (not EulerEarn) are protected with a 4-days _Exit Window_. This falls below the required 7-days _Exit Window_ for this _Upgradeability_ vector to be rated as _Medium_.

> Oracle vendors and adapter Oracle Routers controlled by Euler can be updated with a 2-days _Exit Window_. Routers governed by 3rd-parties are not forced to use an _Exit Window_.

Author: ```suggestion
Selected price oracles controlled by Euler through the Oracle Router can be updated with a 2-days _Exit Window_. Routers governed by 3rd-parties are not forced to use an _Exit Window_.
```

### Fee Configuration

The [ProtocolConfig](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4cD6BF1D183264c02Be7748Cb5cd3A47d013351b) contract controls global fee settings through `setProtocolFeeShare`, `setInterestFeeRange`, and vault-specific overrides, which affect all existing user positions immediately. Per-vault fee configuration is available through `setFeeReceiver` and `setInterestFee` on individual EVaults.

### EulerSwap

The [EulerSwapFactory](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb013be1D0D380C13B58e889f412895970A2Cf228) controls swap fee configuration through `setProtocolFee` and `setProtocolFeeRecipient` for all EulerSwap pools.

With the current setup, the timelock protections (48-hour and 4-day delays) fall below the 7-day minimum threshold required for medium risk classification, and numerous critical functions affecting user funds can be executed by multisigs or role holders.

> Upgradeability score: High

> ## Autonomy

Author: ```suggestion
## Autonomy

```

    ],
    [
      {
        text: "Upgrades have no potential of “loss of funds“ ",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      {
        text: "Dependency with a High centralization score is mitigated",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      {
        text: "Frontend backups or self-hosting option exists",
        status: "fixed",
      },
    ],
    [
      {
        text: "Upgrades have no potential of “loss of funds or unclaimed yield“",
        status: "fixed",
      },
      { text: "There are no external dependencies", status: "fixed" },
      { text: "Alternative third-party frontends exist", status: "fixed" },
    ],
  ]
---

---

# Summary

Euler V2 is a lending and borrowing protocol deployed on Ethereum. It allows users to deposit assets as collateral, borrow against them, and earn interest via an on-chain interest rate model. The protocol employs smart contracts such as EVaults, a generic factory, and a router to handle asset flows, and integrates with oracles and governance modules to manage risk and updates.

# Ratings

## Chain

Euler V2 is deployed on various chains. This review is based on the Ethereum mainnet deployment.

> Chain score: Low

## Upgradeability

> The Euler V2 protocol contains permissioned functions across multiple modules that could result in the theft or loss of user funds, loss of unclaimed yield, or otherwise materially affect the expected performance of the protocol. The control vectors are distributed across the [DAO multisig](#security-council), [Euler Labs](#security-council) and 3rd-party vault-specific governors. Each module carries specific risks as detailed below.

Author: ```suggestion
The Euler V2 protocol contains permissioned functions across multiple modules that could result in the _loss of user funds_, _loss of unclaimed yield_, or otherwise materially affect the expected performance of the protocol.

Assessment of control on the user deployed vaults see the [Autonomy](#autonomy) section.
```

### Oracle System

Each `EVault` configures an oracle router at creation. The router dispatches price requests to external price feeds via adapters, and the router governor often the same entity as the vault governor can update the configured price feeds.

Vault creators are free to select any oracle adapter or deploy their own. Adapters typically perform only basic checks (e.g., liveness, non-negative prices) and do not guarantee that prices reflect active markets.

Although Euler Labs maintains a registry of approved oracle adapters, routers do not enforce adapter approval during user transactions.

Oracle misconfiguration (by Router Governance) or oracle failure (by 3rd-party oracle vendor) can result in unfair liquidations, excessive borrowing, or situations where funds are stuck until a price feed is replaced, potentially leading to temporary or permanent _loss of funds_.

On the Router Governance level more than 90% of Euler V2 TVL is concentrated among a small number of entities, (1) Usual, (2) Euler DAO and (3) Sentora at the time of writing.

> On the level of price oracle vendors Chainlink ranks number 1 among all used vendors, controlling more than 30% of the current available assets. However most TVL is currently controlled by fixed rate adapters (asset in vault is fixed set to 1:1 USD).

Author: ```suggestion
On the level of price oracle vendors Chainlink ranks number 1 among all used vendors, controlling more than 30% of the current available assets. However most TVL is currently controlled by fixed rate adapters (asset in vault is fixed set to 1:1 USD).

For all adapters that point to chainlink price feeds (30%), a false price could be reported by the chainlink multisig exercising an upgrade on the price feeds. This could lead to wrong prices and _loss of user funds_. Their multisig does not comply with Security Council requirements. A complete analysis of Chainlink price feeds can be found in the dedicated [report](https://www.defiscan.info/protocols/chainlink-oracles/ethereum).
```

# Ratings

## Chain

Euler V2 is deployed on various chains. This review is based on the Ethereum mainnet deployment.

> Chain score: Low

## Upgradeability

The Euler V2 protocol contains permissioned functions that could result in the _loss of user funds_, _loss of unclaimed yield_, or otherwise materially affect the expected performance of the protocol.

Assessment of control on the user deployed vaults see the [Autonomy](#autonomy) section.

### Vault Factory

`EVaults` are created by users via the Factory contract. At creation, users decide whether the newly deployed `EVault` is immutable or upgradeable. The [Euler DAO](#security-council) multisig can upgrade all upgradeable `EVaults`. If maliciously upgraded, this can lead to _loss of funds_ for all users deposited across upgradeable vaults, as upgrades are executed across all upgradeable `EVaults` at once.

### Listing of EVaults for EulerEarn Vaults

> The [Euler DAO](#security-council) controls which whitelist (Perspective) is used by all `EulerEarn` vaults via `EulerEarnFactory2` to check whether an `EulerEarn` vault can deposit into a given `EVault`. If unsafe `EVaults` are accepted, this can lead to _loss of funds_. The initial configuration uses `EVKFactoryPerspective`, which automatically approves all `EVaults` deployed by the factory. If the DAO switches to `GovernedPerspective`, [Euler Labs](#security-council) would manually control in which `EVaults` can be deposited by `EulerEarn` vaults.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Euler DAO](#security-council) controls which whitelist (Perspective) is used by all `EulerEarn` vaults via `EulerEarnFactory2` to check whether an `EulerEarn` vault can deposit into a given `EVault`. If unsafe `EVaults` are accepted, it can lead to _loss of funds_. The initial configuration uses `EVKFactoryPerspective`, which automatically approves all `EVaults` deployed by the factory. If the DAO switches to `GovernedPerspective`, [Euler Labs](#security-council) would manually control in which `EVaults` can be deposited by `EulerEarn` vaults.
```

### Fee Configuration

> The [ProtocolConfig](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4cD6BF1D183264c02Be7748Cb5cd3A47d013351b) contract controls global fee settings through `setProtocolFeeShare`, `setInterestFeeRange`, and vault-specific overrides, which affect all existing user positions immediately. Per-vault fee configuration is available through `setFeeReceiver` and `setInterestFee` on individual EVaults.

Author: ```suggestion
The [ProtocolConfig](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4cD6BF1D183264c02Be7748Cb5cd3A47d013351b) contract controls fee settings by changing the protocol/vault governor split, the valid interest rate fee range on a global level or specific per vault. The protocol fee split affects only the distribution of accumulated fees between the protocol and the governor, not depositor yield. Per-vault fee applies only to newly accruing interest as the vault is updated.
```

The price feeds are wrapped in an adapter that provides a standardized interface to any of the vaults. Vault creators choose from the existing wrappers or deploy their own around any vendor.

Most wrappers do basic checks as liveness and check if the price is non-negative, but do not provide more checks and thus do not guarantee a true price reflecting active markets.

Users trust that the Router Governors, do not install malicious adapters, replace adapters if price feed continuously fails. Most TVL (>90%) in Euler is currently controlled by the following entities, sorted by TVL: (1) Usual, (2) Euler DAO and (3) Sentora.

Furthermore, over all 3rd party vendors Chainlink ranks number 1 among all used vendors, controlling more than 30% of the current available assets. Most TVL is currently controlled by fixed rate (asset in vault is fixed set to 1:1 USD) adapters.

If the price feed reverts the funds are stuck until the price feed is replaced. This could lead to temporary or permanent _loss of funds_.

** what is the % of adapters that are governed by euler **

> XX % of the adapters are governed by Euler DAO, for the remaining adapters users trust 3rd-parties to choose oracles that are trustworthy and to replace the oracles in case of failure.

Author: ```suggestion
```
